To set this stage, we'd like to begin with a few thoughts about this subject,
surf Jehovah with rejoicing.
This is what we are told at Psalm 100 verse 2.
But do you surf Jehovah with rejoicing all the time?
I guess we all will agree that at times it can be difficult to be happy.
So then, is it really important to surf Jehovah with rejoicing?
And what does it really mean? In other words, what is this joyful attitude that Jehovah expects from us?
And what can we do to surf Jehovah with rejoicing and maintain a joyful spirit?
How can we prove that it is important to surf Jehovah with rejoicing?
You might think of our goal, which is to reflect his personality.
In 1 Timothy 1 verse 11, he's called the happy God.
So isn't it logical that Jehovah expects us to be happy in his service?
In Deuteronomy chapter 28, we find a report of God's dealings with these relights.
Here, Jehovah warned them of what would take place if they became disobedient and lost their joy in serving him.
We read at Deuteronomy chapter 28, beginning in verse 45,
all these curses will certainly come upon you because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God
by keeping his commandments and because you did not surf Jehovah your God with rejoicing and joy of heart
when you had such an abundance of everything.
Jehovah took such good care of these relights and yet they were not happy.
This attitude was something he did not like at all.
So we see that serving Jehovah joyfully is very important.
This was emphasized by what Jesus taught.
For example, in the sermon on the Mount, he helped his audience to understand
how to be happy. At times, this part in Matthew chapter 5 is referred to as the nine happinesses.
Later, the Apostle Paul wrote about the fruitage of the Spirit.
Joy is counted among the aspects of the fruitage of the Spirit.
Being joyful is important and by means of his Spirit, Jehovah helps us to rejoice in his service.
But is it realistic to expect that we all smile all the time and cheerfully sing songs the whole day?
Of course, this is not what Jehovah expects. We all have different personalities and express our
happiness differently. Also, there are moments in life when we are sad and disappointed.
And Jehovah is fully aware that some of us are not healthy. Others might fight depression and
are therefore at times just not able to express joy in this way. And yet, he loves all of us and
appreciates us very much. So then, what is the joy that Jehovah expects from us?
What exactly is this joyful spirit or attitude?
Here in Dutronomy, the term rejoicing means the inner feeling and the outward manifestation of joy.
And we also read about the joy of heart. The heart stands for what we are on the inside.
This is the interior man and is displayed in all his various activities, desires,
affections, emotions, passions, thoughts, and so on. And so we see that joy comes from within us.
Yet, does the joy we are talking about depend on circumstances?
Let's illustrate. I think it's safe to say that we all like sunshine.
However, how does the farmer feel when he urgently needs it to rain? And he's waiting and waiting?
He probably would be happier if he had rain. In these last days, we rarely, if ever,
have perfect circumstances with no problems. So I think we can all agree that our joy in
Jehovah's service is not based on circumstances. And we've had here on this program and in our
publications, many examples of ones who have maintained their joy in Jehovah's service despite
challenging circumstances like poor health or opposition. So then what is it that makes us a happy
person? To help us to open up the scope of the answer, would you be willing to join me for a
little experiment? Please close your eyes for a moment. Do you have your eyes closed?
So now, think about an apple. Now you can open your eyes again. Let me ask you a question.
Did you think about a red apple, green apple, or a yellow apple? Why are you able to answer this
question? All I ask you to do was to think about an apple. The answer is we think in pictures.
In fact, we think of countless pictures every day. And after we think about it, it's like we put
all of the pictures in a stack. And then when we think the same thought a second time, it's like we
pull the picture out from below and put it on top of the stack. The longer that we do not think
the thought, the deeper the pictures gets in the stack and it becomes more difficult to remember.
Now, this stack of pictures representing our thoughts is our subconscious. This stack of pictures
makes up our emotional state or state of mind. It determines whether we are sad or happy,
whether we are bored or excited and so forth. And Jehovah our Creator is aware of this powerful
connection between our thoughts and pictures. Let's please turn to 2nd Kings chapter 6 to find
one example of how Jehovah made use of this. Here, we find the report about the King of Syria
who wanted to capture Elijah. How did this attendant feel? Let's see at 2nd Kings chapter 6
beginning with verse 15. When the attendant of the man of the true God rose early and went
outside, he saw that an army with horses and war turrets was surrounding the city.
At once the attendant said to him, Alaz, my master, what are we to do?
The attendant was in fear. He probably thought about their defenseless position and saw himself
already captured by the Syrian army. Would Elijah be able to help his attendant?
Verse 16. But he, Elijah said,
do not be afraid for they are more who are with us than those who are with them.
In other words, Elijah said, think of something else. Think of the many that are with us.
Did this work? It seems the attendant was not able to focus on these reassuring thoughts.
He could not envision Jehovah rescuing them. How did Jehovah help the attendant?
At 2nd Kings chapter 6 verse 17 we read, and then Elijah began to pray and say,
oh Jehovah, open his eyes please that he may see. Immediately, Jehovah opened the attendant's eyes
and he saw, and look, the mountainous region was full of horses and war chariots of fire all
around Elijah. And Jehovah helped the attendant with pictures. The horses and chariots captured
his attention. His thoughts now focused on the fact that Jehovah was with them and in full control.
Now in his mind, he already saw Jehovah's victory and he was not concerned anymore. He was happy.
What he saw influenced his thoughts and changed his state of mind. Thoughts are so powerful.
And how considerate Jehovah is. Remember, in the end, Jehovah did not need any of these horses and
chariots. He saved Elijah and his attendant by striking the Syrian army with blindness.
When we compare the emotions of Elijah with his attendant, what made the difference?
The circumstances were exactly the same. Their thoughts made the difference.
Now, what does this have to do with our subject? Serve Jehovah with rejoicing?
The sofa we have established that Jehovah expects us to be happy, right?
We have seen that our thoughts can be pictures that influence who we are and how we feel.
Pictures and thoughts are closely connected. And that's why the Apostle Paul at Romans 12 verse 2
highlights the importance of our thoughts when he said, we transformed by making your mind over.
For at Ephesians 4 verse 23, he emphasized this by saying,
and you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
Both Scriptures highlight that our thoughts are critical and have a bearing on our whole being.
Additionally, the Apostle Paul knew that we can change our thinking.
Please turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and see what he recommends that we do.
Here in 2 Corinthians 10 verse 5, he says,
we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ.
Isn't this exactly what we should do? We control what we think.
We avoid occupying our mind with thoughts that we can our faith, or thoughts that undermine
our determination to serve Jehovah. Remember we said, thoughts are like pictures that stay within us.
We cannot delete them and they will have an effect on how we feel.
But is there something else we can do? Are you ready for a second experiment?
And please close your eyes again and do not think of an apple.
You can open your eyes again. Were you successful in not thinking of an apple?
If so, you probably have to force yourself to think of something else.
We are made to think.
So the key for serving Jehovah with rejoicing lies not just in avoiding negative thoughts,
but also in thinking healthy thoughts.
Philippians chapter 4 lists a few of them. We read in verse 8,
finally brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern,
whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chased, whatever things are lovable,
whatever things are well spoken of, whatever things are virtuous and whatever things are
praiseworthy, continue considering or thinking about meditating on these things.
By considering and meditating on these healthy subjects, we create pictures in our mind that
make it easier for us to display our joy in Jehovah's service.
Serving Jehovah with rejoicing really depends on us. Happiness does not depend on our circumstances.
Happiness comes from doing things Jehovah's way.
When we actively control our thoughts, we add more pleasant pictures.
And even if in the past, we've experienced things that make it difficult to express happiness,
in time, these unpleasant pictures will be buried under thoughts like those listed in Philippians
chapter 4. And gradually, our inner peace, contentment, and happiness grows and can be seen by others.
Jehovah, our happy God, appreciates every little step in this direction because it's important to
him that we serve him with rejoicing.